Good morning.
Welcome to the introduction
to the Shake SDK session.
My name is Angus Taggart,
and I'm an engineer with the Shake team.
I do some development and I also
do a lot of work with the SDK.
Our objectives for this morning
are really to provide you with
a general introduction to Shake,
what it does, our customer base,
you know, who's using Shake,
some of the people who
developed for Shake,
and then I'm going to spend some time
talking about Shake's architecture,
some important concepts.
And we want to take a high-level
overview of Shake's architecture,
and then we're going to move into
some of the code building blocks.
And Shake is a very complex application.
It's a very sophisticated piece of
software that solves a lot of very
interesting problems for our customer.
Hang on, for our customers.
So let me just get started.
Let's introduce Shake.
First of all,
I want to see a show of hands.
How many people here are familiar with
the Shake product and what it does?
Okay, fantastic.
That's great.
I was expecting to see only a couple.
So we're going to do a
quick intro to Shake.
We're going to talk
about the customer base,
third-party developer community,
and the SDK package, just to get started.
First of all,
as it sounds like most of you know,
Shake is Apple's high-end
digital compositing and visual
effects software solution.
New in Shake 4,
an exciting new feature is
the ability to do digital
compositing in a 3D environment.
A lot of our customers are more and more
working or implementing workflows that
require 3D solutions for compositing,
and Shake 4 has a very exciting
new capability to support that.
It's got a lot of underlying
capabilities to do image processing,
effects.
It's just a very powerful application.
One of the things I'd like to do really
quickly is introduce the kinds of
problems that our customers are solving.
We're fortunate enough to get
an effects build-up clip from
our friends at Weta Digital.
They're based in New Zealand,
and they did, obviously,
all the Lord of the Rings work.
In this shot, what you'll see is they
take the original footage,
and then they do a huge amount
to it to create the final shot.
They paint in shadows using mattes.
They do color correction.
Now they need to put in a
background so that they create
a matte for the background.
At this point, we're going to start
introducing 3D digital elements.
We're going to have horses,
which are 3D digital elements.
There's a big dragon that swoops
in that's a 3D digital element.
This is really the core
of what Shake does.
It takes a number of different sources of
imagery from live footage to CG elements,
and it combines them all to
create a seamless final image,
what you see on the scene.
That's the core of what Shake does.
It's a very powerful product.
One of the things I wanted to go
over is the Shake customer base.
As plug-in developers,
you have to make an economic decision.
You're going to put in so much
work to build your plug-ins,
and you want to know,
who am I selling to?
How big is the customer base?
First and foremost,
Shake is entrenched at the
high-end film visual FX market.
I've listed, basically,
in the United States, in Europe,
and also in the South Pacific,
Shake is used by the top-tier
high-end visual FX companies.
It would be surprising if
you went to see one of the
blockbuster movies this summer,
and it would be very surprising if
Shake hadn't been used to help produce
some of the visual FX for those movies,
Batman Begins, that sort of thing.
It's becoming a required courseware
at a number of film schools.
I think a very exciting story for Shake,
and this is something that's
really happened over the last two
or three years as Shake has been
brought into the Apple family,
is that with the port to OS X and
very aggressive pricing and marketing,
we're seeing a rapid adoption of
Shake in what you would consider
to be the broadcast video market.
That is a very large customer base.
It's a very large customer base that
certainly as a plug-in developer
would mean your return on your
investment would be greatly enhanced.
Since Shake has been around for, I guess,
since the late '90s, mid-late '90s,
we actually have a fairly established
third-party developer community in place,
and we're very fortunate to have support
from some of the top motion graphics
plug-in developers in the world.
We're very fortunate to have support
from some of the top motion graphics
plug-in developers in the world.
We're very fortunate to have support
from some of the top motion graphics
plug-in developers in the world.
And the reason that we have this kind
of support is that Shake is being used
in some of the most exciting projects,
post-production work going on now,
and so people naturally choose
Shake as a way to get their
technology out to high-end users.
And the reason that we have this kind
of support is that Shake is being used
in some of the most exciting projects,
post-production work going on now,
and so people naturally choose
Shake as a way to get their
technology out to high-end users.
Okay, one of the things that it's really
worthwhile doing is spending a bit of
time talking about Shake's architecture.
One of the great advantages of Shake is
that the SDK exposes the same internals,
basically the same base classes
that the internal development
engineering team uses.
And so as an SDK developer,
you're going to be able to get
very deep into the application.
You're going to be able to very tightly
merge your technology in with Shake,
and that's very exciting.
But to do that,
you need a conceptual base.
You need to be able to sit there and go,
okay, I understand what I'm looking at.
I understand why Shake's doing that.
And so that's why I like to spend
a little bit of time talking about
Shake's architecture and just reviewing
some of the key things that Shake does.
So there's essentially three main
points we're going to look at.
We're going to look at dependency graph.
Shake is a dependency
graph-based application.
The rendering engine,
we're going to look at how
the rendering engine works,
at least at a high level.
And we're also going to
look at the workspace.
You know, everything exists inside
of a 2D coordinate system,
but we want to know a little bit
more about how Shake tracks things
inside of that 2D coordinate system.
So first of all, I guess I'll ask,
how many people here have worked on an
application or developed an application
that has a dependency graph architecture?
Okay, so there's a couple of you.
Good,
I'm glad I've got these slides then.
So first and foremost,
let's just take a look.
If you open up Shake and you start
putting together a composition,
one of the things that you'll see
is a very simple processing tree.
So we've got some input image data,
we've got a color wheel,
we've got an input file,
and you'll see that the
image data flows down,
and that as it flows down,
it goes through what we call nodes.
And the two key conceptual
underpinnings of a dependency
graph are nodes and plugs.
A node is essentially an entity
where data processing occurs.
So it's within nodes that
actual computation occurs.
If you've got an image
processing algorithm,
you're going to be implementing
it inside of a node.
Now, plugs are the entity within Shake.
They're basically containers for data,
and they allow the movement of
data through the dependency graph.
So if we take a quick look
at that image in Shake,
what you'll see--let me see
if my laser pointer skills.
So what you'll see is we've
got some image data that's
flowing down through the tree,
but essentially that data is
transferred in and out of nodes
through entities called plugs.
So if we take a look at--in the right,
I've got a very simple blown-up diagram,
and what it does is it basically
shows you a couple of input plugs
where data moves into the node.
The node then processes that data.
Once it's done processing the data,
it sort of places the answer or
whatever value or values that
it's computed in an output plug.
So that's the basis,
the basics of a dependency graph.
Let's talk a little bit about nodes.
So nodes are connected via plugs.
That's the way we move data.
Key things--plugs must be
of the same data types.
So if you've got a floating point value,
if you want to connect
it to another plug,
that other plug has to be
a floating point value.
And the--one of the key efficiencies
in a dependency graph is you
might have 30 plugs all connected,
but they all share a reference
to a single data item.
So that's something that makes the
dependency graph very efficient.
There's not duplication of data
and also the state of the data.
Basically,
all the plugs will inherit or all
the connected plugs will inherit
the same state of the data.
Another key concept with nodes is
the fact that they're hierarchical.
And this is very important because you
can imagine that Shake actually has a lot
of very simple data processing nodes that
do things like maybe a bytes conversion,
you know, from 8-bit to 16-bit.
You can imagine that there's nodes
in Shake that do things like,
you know, crop data, all kinds of things.
Well, you want to be able to
reuse that functionality.
You don't want to have to rewrite it.
And, so,
one of the things that you're able to do
is you're able to take advantage of the
hierarchical nature of the dependency
graph and you're able to create what
we call composite nodes or macro nodes.
And, so, you can rapidly create your own
customized image processing node,
but at the same time reuse some
of the existing functionality that
Shake's already implemented for you.
And it's just a question of
wiring up your own internal node
tree to manage that processing.
So, that's an important concept.
So let's look at plugs.
Some points with plugs.
We know that they're containers for data,
but an important point with them is that
they must always be owned by a node.
There's no such thing as just a
plug dangling outside somewhere or
in some sort of outside of a node.
We basically always have to have
an owner node for that plug.
Plugs have polarity,
meaning certain plugs are dedicated
to bringing data into the node,
and other plugs are dedicated
for taking data out of the node.
And when you define a plug,
you're going to say right up front you're
an input plug or you're an output plug.
And finally,
the plugs in Shake actually only
represents five basic data types.
We've got ins floats, double strings,
and also a plug that can store a pointer.
So that's something that
you might want to look at.
And then there's the plug that
you might find kind of surprising,
but that's all we need.
And the reason for that is that
plugs similar to nodes can have
hierarchical relationships.
And so one of the things that you can do
is you can actually create fairly complex
plugs that have a lot of children plugs.
And basically it allows you to
pass in a complex data structure.
In this particular example,
we've got a composite
plug or a macro plug,
and ten of its children are input plugs.
Six of its children are output plugs.
And so it allows sort of an interesting
movement of data in and out of the node.
And the analogy I always like to make
is that nodes that have hierarchical
relationships are basically supporting
more complicated processing.
So when you see a node
with a lot of children,
it's basically performing
more complex processing.
If you see a plug with a lot of children,
what it is is it's more
complex data structure.
I always consider a plug with
children to be like a C struct.
Basically you've got a number of
data members that are part of it,
and it allows you to move complex
data in and out of your node.
So where does the dependency part of the
dependency graph architecture come from?
It comes from the concept that
your node produces values and
places them in their output plug,
but you need to register with
Shake what dependencies your,
what input plugs your
output plug depends upon.
So to produce a value,
usually you can write out a simple
equation like C equals A plus B,
and then you can derive a very simple
dependency relationship which says,
hey, plug C is dependent upon
both plugs A and plugs B.
And the reason that this is
important is because Shake needs
to know whether the value stored
in your plug is up to date or not.
Now let's say that you've got a plug
that computes A plus B equals C,
and it's computed at once,
and so plug C is storing some value.
Well, when Shake goes back to your node
to request the value of plug C,
the first thing that it's going to
do is it's going to look at plug
A and plug B and see if the values
have changed since the last time that
it requested the value of plug C.
And if plug A and plug B's
values haven't changed,
then guess what?
Shake isn't going to ask you
to do any processing at all.
It's going to use the existing
value that's stored in plug C.
And this is something that
makes a dependency graph very,
very efficient so that there's only
recomputation when it's necessary.
So if somebody does come in and
change an input value such as,
okay, I'm going to change the
input value stored in plug B,
Shake's dependency graph
architecture tracks that,
and it'll say, hey, guess what?
You need to recompute C.
Another very important point that makes
Shake's dependency graph efficient
is that the Shake node engine or
dependency graph engine is only going
to call your plug-in for output values.
I don't want to say it doesn't
care about your input plugs,
but at the end of the day,
Shake is only going to ask your
node to produce an output value.
And what that means is that somebody
can go in and be fiddling with
the value in plug B and plug A,
but your node isn't necessarily
going to be called at that
point to compute a value.
It's only going to be called when
somebody else out there needs your
value stored in output plug C.
So when somebody requests
the value stored in plug C,
at that point,
Shake does its dependency graph logic,
looks at the value
stored in plugs A and B.
If they've changed,
then you're going to get called.
And then you're going to
have to do some computation.
So both lazy evaluation and dependencies
are very key aspects of dependency
graphs that make them very efficient.
So let's take a look at
SHAKE's rendering engine.
First thing, when SHAKE came out,
you know, back in the middle, late 90s,
one of the things that people just loved
about SHAKE was that it supported both 8,
16, and 32-bit image data.
You know,
what you'll see is it's 2005 now,
and if you go to some of
the computer graphics,
trade shows, NAB, SIGGRAPH,
somebody will come out and say, hey,
we support HDR data now,
or high dynamic range data.
Well,
SHAKE's been supporting high dynamic
range data by supporting 32-bit
image data since the late 90s.
That's no big deal for us.
We've been able to manage
that for a very long time.
Resolution independence,
that means that when you're
working on a composition in SHAKE,
you can bring in 4K images,
you can bring in 2K images,
you can bring in 640 by 480 images,
and you can bring in all those
images into the same composition.
It's not like I'm going to
sit down and I'm going to do a
composition and this one's going
to be a 720 by 486 composition,
and everything coming in has
to be cropped to that size.
And actually,
if you take a look at the little
graphics that I've got at the bottom,
it just shows we've got a color wheel.
That color wheel is 8-bit image data.
We're reading in a--that's
actually an OpenEXR file,
and it's just a sample image,
and that's 32-bit image data.
You can see that the sizes
of the images are different,
and all we're doing is a
simple layering operation,
and you'll see that SHAKE manages
that without any problem.
So it can put A on top of
B without any problems whatsoever.
And you can choose whether you
want the bit depth promoted
to the background image value
or the foreground image value.
So that's a very powerful aspect
of SHAKE's rendering engine.
The reason I bring that up is, okay,
you're a plug-in developer,
and you've got an image processing
algorithm that you want to
get working inside of SHAKE.
The thing that you need to do is you
need to make sure that you have an 8-bit,
a 16-bit, and a 32-bit implementation
of your algorithm,
meaning-- 'cause when you've
got your pointers to the data,
it's got to be a pointer
to a data of a certain,
you know, certain bit depth.
And so most image processing nodes
in SHAKE support all three of
those--all three of those bit depths.
So that's something to keep in
the back of your mind when you're
developing your algorithms.
Um...
Okay, so that's sort of the
first piece of information.
The second piece of information
is that how does Shake actually
generate pixel values?
Well, what it does is,
I don't know if you're familiar
with like a scanline renderer.
A scanline renderer essentially
just renders a line of pixels and,
you know,
just sequentially does one line after the
next until it builds up an entire image.
Shake uses what we call a hybrid block
scanline and tile-based renderer.
And the reason why it's a block
scanline is that Shake will
basically process as many scanlines
as can fit in the CPU's L2 cache.
The reason is that, you know,
the processing nodes are constantly
updating the pixel data stored in memory,
and if you've got that pixel data
sitting in your CPU's L2 cache,
the retrieval of that is very fast.
It makes the Shake rendering engine very,
very fast.
So that's an important thing.
The other thing is that,
so tile-based rendering.
Tile-based rendering basically
is what it sounds like.
It takes an image and breaks
it up into individual tiles and
can work with individual tiles.
And there are certain circumstances
that Shake will internally convert
to being a tile-based renderer.
And the final point on that is by
rendering just a few scan lines
at a time instead of working
with full frame image buffers,
it really reduces
Shake's memory footprint.
A lot of our customers will be
working on composites that might have,
like, 40 or 50 input files.
These things look like a map of L.A.
I mean,
you've got a huge number of input nodes.
You've got, you know,
tons of a lot of image
processing operations.
And so, it's very important that image
processing nodes in Shake are able
to work on just a few scan lines of
data at a time so that the memory
footprint doesn't become ridiculous.
So in tile-based mode,
you can imagine that if,
let's say you're a transformation
operator or a warp operator where
you've got to rotate an input image.
Well, to do the rotation,
you're actually going to need
to retrieve pixel data from
other regions of the image.
And we're trying to just work
on a few scan lines at a time,
right?
And so underneath the hood,
what Shake will do is when you
request essentially image data
from outside of your scan line,
Shake can actually break up the incoming
image into tiles that it caches.
And so it'll give you that image data.
It'll keep the tile around.
And then if like a subsequent pixel
that's being processed down the
scan line needs image data from one
of those tiles that's been cached,
it's right there and very fast.
So that's sort of the
basics of the rendering.
And one of the things that we always
encourage our developers to do because
sometimes developers will come from
doing plug-ins from an application that
they get the full frame image buffer.
And so they're used to
having all of the pixel data,
all of the input image
pixel data at once.
And so sometimes developers need
to refactor their algorithms or
image processing algorithms so
that they can actually work within
a block scan line environment.
And a lot of times...
It's very easy to do that.
It's just a question of sometimes
developers will have image processing
libraries and those image processing
libraries expect the full frame
input image and they just need
to do some refactoring to work
on just a few scan lines at a time.
Okay, so within Shake,
all the pixels live in
a 2D coordinate space.
And one of the things that we
like to do right up front is,
you know, where is the origin of
this 2D coordinate system?
And as this graphic illustrates,
if you open up Shake,
there is what we call the viewer window.
And in the viewer window,
you actually see the final,
what the dimensions of the final
image are going to look like.
So I call that the image window.
And the 2D coordinate system inside of
Shake is always anchored to the lower
left-hand corner of the image window.
So if you've got a 720 by 486 image,
your coordinate system is
going to be anchored to the
lower left-hand corner of that.
You know, you've got a 640 by, you know,
486, whatever it is,
it's always going to be
anchored to the lower left-hand
corner of the image window.
And even within a composite,
let's say you've got a composite.
The input image is 720 by 486.
But at some other point in the composite,
you change the size of the image.
Maybe you've done a resize
to make it larger or smaller.
The 2D coordinate system still stays
anchored to that lower left-hand corner.
Everything else sort of adjusts
itself with respect to that.
So that's the first piece of information.
The second piece of information,
and this is sort of another one of the
things that's a bit of a first in Shake,
is the notion that the
composition workspace is
actually an infinite workspace.
There aren't hard boundaries where image
data can be lost in most circumstances.
And so if you transform
pixels or resize them,
do a corner pin, whatever you're doing,
even though that pixel data might
fall outside of your image window,
as you see, for instance,
in this graphic down here,
the color wheel has been
transformed to the right.
And even though some of its image
data is outside of the image window,
Shake is still tracking it.
Shake, under the hood,
actually tracks pixel data.
And so if you want to track pixel data,
you can track pixel data
everywhere in this 2D space.
And a quick point that I want to cover,
because it comes up in
plug-in development,
is there is a color to Shake's canvas,
and it's important to track this color.
It's called the background pixel.
And in this case,
you can see that the background
pixel color is black,
and it's almost always black.
It rarely changes.
But it is what we call
the color of the canvas,
the background pixel.
And there's a couple
of key bounding boxes.
And the first one is that Shake defines
to enable you to track where pixel data
is and where processing should occur.
The first thing is the
domain of definition,
or we just call it DOD.
And the DOD is a bounding box that
actually bounds all valid pixel data.
And by valid pixel data, you say, oh,
it's valid pixel data.
It's a pixel value that is not
equal to the background pixel value.
So even though in this graphic,
it's not equal to the
background pixel value,
it's a pixel value that is not
equal to the background pixel value.
And so in this graphic
that I've got here,
what you'll see is the DOD is
represented by the ground or
by the green rubber band box.
And actually,
that green rubber band box extends
off the screen to encompass.
Let me use my laser pointer again.
The green bounding box will
actually extend off the screen to
track where the edge of the valid
pixel data for the color wheel is.
And so that's the first
thing that Shake tracks.
The second thing.
The third thing that Shake tracks is
what we call the region of interest.
And the region of interest is
a very powerful tool within
Shake because essentially,
you might have a 2K image coming in.
But at the end of the day,
the user might only be interested
in a small 200 by 200 region
inside of that 2K image.
The region of interest allows
you to tell Shake or basically
allows you to tell Shake,
we only want to process
these 200 by 200 pixels.
I don't want to perform image
processing on the full 2K plate.
So the region of interest is
a very important bounding box.
In this case, the region of interest
is actually-- well,
we'll take a look at it really quickly.
Next slide.
[Transcript missing]
You're going to be using plugs to
get data in and out of your node,
and so you're going to be
using the NRI plug class.
You're rarely going to need
to derive from NRI plug.
As it turns out,
we've got 26 example plug-ins in the SDK,
and I don't think any of them actually
end up coming up with a specialized
plug that derives from NRI plug,
so you'll just be using
the NRI plug class as is.
And is everyone, I mean,
if you're Objective
C programmers or C++ programmers,
you're probably comfortable
with the idea of an interface,
a functional interface.
Is everyone pretty comfortable with that?
So essentially a functional
interface is a set of functions
or a suite of functions that,
you know,
fulfill a certain contract or task.
And in Shake,
we've got a set of functions
in the NRI node base class that
allow you to communicate with
Shake's dependency graph engine,
basically, and rendering engine.
And I think you'll be surprised.
There's actually not a lot of
functions that you'll need to override.
It'll be fairly straightforward.
The first and most important
one is the eval function.
And your eval function is where you
compute the value of output plugs.
Remember, with lazy evaluation,
Shake isn't going to ask you for
the value of your input plugs.
It's not going to come to you and say,
"Give me a value of your
input plugs." Shake is only
going to come to you and say,
"I need this value for your output
plug." And when it does that,
it's going to call your
eval member function.
It's going to pass in a pointer to
the plug that it's interested in.
And then essentially what
you've got inside of your
eval is something that says,
"Ah, if you're interested in the
value of this output plug,
then I need to do this set of
computations." You do those computations.
And you update the value
in the output plug.
A second one, which is one that ends up
being used quite a bit,
is the notify.
And the reason for this is that the
concept of lazy evaluation is you're only
going to be asked for your output plugs.
But sometimes you want to
get notified when one of your
input plug values changes.
You know, a user might do something and
it might change the mode that
your plug-in is going to work in.
So you want some kind of notification.
So there is a way around this.
With an input plug, you can say to Shake,
"Hey, call me when somebody changes the
value of one of my input plugs."
Because there's some stuff I need to do,
reset up, whatever it is.
And so on an input plug,
you can register that plug.
Say, "I want to be notified when it
changes." When its value changes,
Shake is going to call you through
the notify callback function.
At that point,
you can take any action you want to take.
You can't actually do image processing.
Or core rendering.
But there's a lot of things
that you can do in there.
Another one that developers
might override is the begin exec.
That essentially gets called
right before render starts.
So if you've got things you need to
set up before you do your rendering,
implement that in the begin exec.
Because it's just called once
right before frame renders.
It's called on a per frame basis.
So each frame that renders,
your begin exec will be called.
And then you can allocate some memory,
set up some flags, whatever you want.
whatever you need to do.
I think we covered that, didn't we?
End exec,
that's just sort of the other side
of the render from the begin exec.
So when the frame finishes rendering,
if there's something you need
to do to clean up or reset,
override the end exec member function.
One of the things that Shake sort of does
for free for you is that it'll serialize
in sort of a standardized format all
of your input plug values for you.
So Shake actually manages serialization
of your plug-in's input values for you.
If you need to customize that,
if there are some actions
that you need to take,
then you'll need to override
the serialize member function.
Most plug-ins don't have to,
but it's something that you have the
option of doing so that you can override
the default serialization logic that's
built into the NRI node base class.
And a final one for computationally
intensive image processing algorithms,
I think there's a check
interrupt function.
It's not something that
you override or implement,
but it's just there for you to call so
that let's say you've got this big loop,
maybe in the outer loop you
can put in a check interrupt so
that if the user hits escape,
the check interrupt will tell you that
the user's hit escape and then you can
do the right thing and stop computing.
Because if you've got
something that takes 15,
20 seconds or a minute or more,
you've certainly got to give the user
the option of canceling the processing.
Wow, we got duplicate,
I see it lit up when I pressed it, okay.
So code building blocks,
let's get into plugs cuz one of the
things you're gonna need to do is
you're gonna need to get values out
of plugs cuz plugs are containers,
they store the values.
But you need to get those values out.
So for each of the data types,
you'll see that there's the
associated give me the data as an int,
as a float, as a double,
as a pointer and as a string.
And Shake has its own string class.
Most applications end up doing
that for whatever reason,
unless they use STL or
something like that.
And so if you need to get a const char*,
it's really easy.
The shake string class is nri_name.
If you need to get your const
char* pointer out of that,
just call get_string
on the nri_name object.
So that's how you get
data out of your plugs.
And most of the time you're pulling
data out of your input plugs cuz
you're gonna need those input values
to compute your output values.
Finally,
there is only a single member function
for setting a value in a plug.
The logic inside of the
NRI plug base class will manage,
let's say you want to set a
floating point value and you
set it as a quoted string 4.0,
there is logic inside of the NRI plug
base class to do the necessary conversion
based on the data type of the plug.
And a key thing in a dependency graph,
the only way that we can move data in a
dependency graph is by connecting plugs.
And so one of the things that you'll
use a lot is the connect call.
As we said earlier,
connections can only be made
between plugs of the same data type.
And there is sort of an order
or a getter-setter relationship.
Basically,
if I'm a plug and I say connect me to,
I'm plug A,
and I say connect me to plug B,
that means that plug B is
going to be setting my value.
I'm not setting plug B's value.
So if I'm plug A and I say
connect me to plug B,
that means I'm getting
my value from plug B.
And I'm sharing a number of other things,
like the state of the plug.
Like in the dependency graph,
we know that input plugs,
if their value's changed,
will have a state that
we call marked as dirty,
meaning that its input value is has
changed since the last evaluation.
Connected plugs all share that state.
So if I've got 30 connected plugs,
the plug at the end of that chain shares
the same value and up-to-date state
as the plug at the end of the chain.
And finally,
how do you add a plug to your node?
As we said, plugs must be owned by nodes,
and so it makes sense that the NRI node
base class actually has the function
necessary to add a plug to itself.
So when you add a plug, you set its name.
It's just a string,
and it's actually the name that
will show up in the UI when
somebody's editing your plug-in.
So it's usually good to choose a
name that's intuitive to the user.
So that's the first argument.
The second argument is the type.
Is it going to be an int, float, double,
pointer, string?
The next argument is the IO.
As we discussed, a plug is either an
input or an output plug,
so you'll be setting that.
An internal plug is one that
won't show up in the UI.
It's just something that stores
a value internally for you.
So you can set a plug
as being K internal.
And one of the things that plug-in
developers come back with is,
how do I change the order of
how my plugs appear in the UI?
Well, your node actually stores a list
of all the plugs you've added,
and you can control that ordering.
And within this add plug,
you can actually say, hey,
add this plug as the
first one in the list,
which means when the user's
editing your plug-in,
they'll actually see that
plug first in the list.
Okay, so I think those are the
basic code building blocks.
There's obviously a lot more classes
that are part of the Shake code base,
but the key ones that you're going
to be using over and over and over
again is nri_node and nri_plug.
Making the connection, setting values,
that's the core things that
the plugins in Shake do.
So what I want to do is I want
to revisit the C equals A plus
B plugin example and actually Take a
look at some source code for that.
So let's take a look at the
class definition for this node.
The first thing is that
this one we're just going to
derive directly from NRI node.
We're not doing anything fancy in it.
So we derive from NRI node,
and we've got three plugs.
We've got A, B, and C.
A and B are input plugs.
C is the output plug.
And so we declare pointers
to them in our header.
In the constructor in Shake,
and this is an important point,
is that in some
object-oriented environments,
it's encouraged that you don't
do too much in the constructor.
You know, that you basically have a
very lightweight constructor,
and then maybe you'll have an
initialized member function where
everything happens in the initialized.
Well, Shake doesn't follow that.
Actually, it's just the opposite.
In Shake,
you do everything in terms of setup
must happen in your constructor.
So in terms of adding
the plugs to your node,
registering dependencies,
making connections,
anything that you're going to do,
you're going to do in the constructor
when you're building a plug-in in Shake.
And in this, the only dependency graph
interface function that we're
going to override is eval,
because the only thing that we're going
to need to do is eval the value of C,
our output plug.
So that's what your
header file looks like.
Fairly simple.
And let's take a look at the
constructor for this plug-in.
As you can see,
we're using the add plug member function.
We've just decided to
name the plugs capital A,
capital B, capital C, and that's the way
they'll appear in the UI.
The first,
all three plugs are integer plugs.
And the first two, A and B,
we tell Shake that they're input plugs.
And the third plug,
we tell Shake that it's an output plug.
So that's the first thing.
Add all your plugs.
Now that you've got your plugs added,
remember this is a dependency graph,
and Shake needs a way to know
when the value that you're
computing for plug C is up to date.
So what you've got to
do is add dependencies.
So on plug C, we call add dependencies,
and we tell Shake, by the way,
the output value of C is dependent
upon A and B being up to date.
And here,
I just wanted to give you a demonstration
of actually setting a plug's value.
You'll see that for plug A,
I just set it using a
standard integer value.
But you'll also see with plug B,
I actually passed in a quoted string.
And as we discussed before,
the NRI node base class,
or the NRI plug base class,
knows how to handle the conversion
necessary based on your plug type.
Okay, so let's go into our eval function.
So this is how, this is the function that
Shake's going to call when
it wants the value of plug C.
So all we're going to do is,
we've defined pointers to our
input plugs and our output plugs,
and so what we're going to do is we're
just going to see whether Shake is
calling us for the value of plug C.
And if it is, then you'll see that we're
going to retrieve the values
from plug A and plug B,
so we've got our two integer values.
And then we're going to
do a simple computation,
A plus B, and we're going to take
the resulting value of C,
and we've got to actually
set it into the plug.
So remember, a plug is a container,
and it holds a value,
so we've actually got to set
that value into the C plug.
And one of the things that
happens is that since Shake,
actually Shake has quite a deep class
hierarchy for doing image processing,
it's always good form to call your
super class or your parent class.
And because you might
not evaluate that plug,
it might actually be a plug
that your parent class defines
and has logic for evaluating,
so it's always good form in Shake to
call your super class with a plug.
Now, in this case,
you could put something in the
evaluation section for plug
C where it just says return zero,
and that would be fine.
Zero is the success code in
Shake or the error code that
indicates that nothing went wrong.
And so, okay, we've covered that.
Cool, so one of the main things you're
gonna do with Shake is you're going
to develop image processing plug-ins.
I would say 90% of the plug-ins
that people develop for Shake are
image processing plug-ins.
The other ones, if I were to list them,
you'll see people
developing asset management,
you know,
plug-ins that enable Shake to work
with an asset management system.
Render queue submittal plug-ins
are another variety of plug-in.
But for the most part,
our developers out there are
developing image processing plug-ins.
And so that's what I would guess is,
like, out of everyone there,
do you guys do,
if you do do plug-in development,
do you do image processing
plug-in development?
Okay, what other kinds of plug-in
development do you guys do?
Render queue?
Okay, we've got a plug-in
type that supports that.
Any others?
Okay.
Anyhow, let's talk about, first of all,
plug-in types.
Here they are.
Image processing plug-ins,
on-screen controls, like for instance,
is everyone familiar with
an on-screen control?
Basically, it's a reference geometry that
sits right on top of the image,
and what you can do is the user can
actually interact with that reference
geometry to make parameter changes.
So instead of actually going over to a
parameter editor and tweaking a slider,
there's reference geometry
drawn right on top of the image,
and by interacting with
that reference geometry,
you're actually modifying
values and changing the image.
One of the things that we've
just introduced in Shake 4 is
the ability to get spline data or
shape data in and out of Shake.
There's a number of applications
out there that support rotoscoping,
and that's the kind of thing,
and we need to get shape data in and out.
As I mentioned, render queue interface.
Also, Shake's widget toolkit
is open to developers,
so let's say you want to create custom
dialogues and custom parameter widgets,
you can do that.
And we've also got custom file
format readers and writers.
So let's say you've got
a custom file format,
you need to get it into Shake,
you can actually write something
that's able to read that file format.
Okay,
so let's just dig into image processing
plug-ins and just focus in on this.
One of the key things to understand
when developing an image processing
plug-in in Shake is the image plug.
So if we take a look
at this image up here,
you'll see that we've generated
a color wheel and that image data
is flowing down through the tree.
And you'll see that there's a
connection made between the node
that generates the color wheel
and then an image processing node.
And the connection's indicated by
something in Shake called noodles.
And actually what a noodle is,
is it's a connection, a plug connection.
And it's the image plug.
This is the thing that the image data
and the information associated with the
image data moves from one processing node
in Shake to the next processing node.
That is the primary connection between
image processing nodes in Shake.
It's the image plug.
And one of the things that makes
the image plug a little bit
tougher to sort of get a handle
on is that it's a composite plug.
It actually has 16 children plugs,
and 10 of those children plugs carry
data down the processing tree in Shake,
and 6 of those plugs actually
carry data up the processing tree.
So there's some information, you know,
let's say you've got a node,
let me go back a little bit,
let me see what the
next slide looks like.
Okay, let's go back.
So there's a certain amount of
information in SHAKE that is defined
by what we'll call a leaf node.
It's a node right at the
top of the processing tree.
And that information will flow down.
But there's also information that
will be defined at the bottom of the
processing tree that will flow up.
Basically some information,
I'll cover it,
but you can imagine that in terms of
what time do you want the image data.
Well, that's defined by something
near the bottom of the tree.
But in terms of what
size the image data is,
that's something defined by something
near the top of the processing tree.
So there's this flow of information
both up and down the processing tree
that as a plug-in you've got to track.
Okay.
Now, this is a chart that I'm not gonna
go into a huge amount of time
going through each of the items,
because when you develop, you know,
when you start working
with Shake Plugins,
you'll get all this information.
But these are the 10 plugs,
or child plugs, that carry information
down the processing tree.
So the information that flows down,
the width and height of the image,
that flows down.
The bit depth of the image,
that flows down the tree.
The domain of definition,
which is that bounding box that
tells us where valid pixel data is,
that flows down the tree.
Let me see.
I better click again.
Some of these
The active color channels.
That's another very important one.
One of the things that Shake can do,
or that plug-ins and Shake can do,
is they can say, guess what,
I've only got valid image
data or luminance data.
I've only got valid image data
and luminance and alpha channels.
And that information
propagates down the tree,
and that means that plug-ins
can limit their processing to
only the active color channels.
It might only have RGB and not alpha.
As you guys are probably well aware,
the kind of image data that can come
in and the channels that are being
processed can change quite a bit,
and it's a big efficiency gain
for a plug-in if it only processes
the active color channels.
The background pixel
we discussed earlier,
that's the color of the canvas.
You can attach some blind data
and pass it down the tree,
which is really cool,
because let's say you're an input
node and you've opened up a data file,
and that data file or that image
file has some metadata that you're
going to want further down the tree.
Well,
you can take that metadata and you can
store it all in the blind data plug,
and that'll be passed down the tree,
and then a node further down the tree can
actually retrieve that data and use it.
The time range is
something that flows down,
because an input node usually knows that
it's going to be passed down the tree.
It knows, okay,
I'm opening up 100 frames of data,
so it can set the valid time range.
And the key thing,
the image buffer itself,
we call it the O-buff,
and that gets passed down the tree.
So you'll actually retrieve that O-buff,
which comes in from the node above you,
and that's processed image data,
meaning it's been processed
by the node above you.
You bring it in, you do your processing,
and then you pass it
to the node below you.
[Transcript missing]
So the final one is the iBuff.
And actually what happens in Shake in
the processing tree is that the node
at the bottom of the tree actually
ends up allocating the image buffer.
So because the node at the bottom of
the tree knows the region of interest,
it knows how much pixel data
the user wants to look at,
it allocates the buffer.
That buffer then is passed all
the way up to the top leaf node,
and it gets to the top leaf node,
and then the top leaf node
starts filling in pixel values,
passes it to the node below it.
He does his processing,
and then it goes like that.
So you can sort of get this image
in your head or in your mind of
an image buffer being allocated
at the bottom of the tree,
being passed all the way
up to the top leaf node,
and then the top leaf node
fills in pixel values,
and then it goes back down
to the processing tree.
So the next two slides,
if you're developing
image processing plugins,
the next two slides are worth
just looking at because as the
SDK engineer and support guy,
I get more questions from this
aspect of plugin development,
image processing plugin development,
than any other.
And that is the fact that you've
got an input image plugged to
your node and you've got an
output image plugged to your node.
And tracking the polarity
of the child plugs is key.
Once you get this slide,
these kind of plugins, very,
very easy to do.
So okay,
let's look at the top of the node.
At the top of the node,
I've got image data coming into me.
Well, those ten downstream plugs
are now inputs to my node.
It's the data flowing into my node.
And we know from dependency graph
concepts that Shake-Only asks us
for the output values from our node,
the output plug values.
So all the child plugs
that are green in here,
Shake isn't gonna ask you for
those because they're inputs.
Those are values that you take
into your node and you use those
values to compute some value.
So you can see in the input image plug,
it's actually the data flowing up the
tree that are the outputs to your node.
So if you wanna change the
ROI or the region of interest,
then that's something that's
gonna flow up the tree.
Shake will ask you for that.
Let's go down and take a look
at the output image plug.
The polarity's flipped now cuz it's
now an output plug to the node.
And you can see that all of
the downstream quantities
are now outputs to the node.
So anything associated with the width,
the bytes, the DOD,
the active color channels,
Shake can potentially be asking
you for that information cuz
it's outputs to your node.
And you'll see that the information
flowing up the dependency graph
or up the processing tree,
the current time, the region of interest,
etc., those are inputs to your node.
So Shake won't ask you
for those on that plug.
So how do you actually
do image processing?
Like how do you implement your
image processing algorithm?
Well, a lot of the time, let's face it,
you're not going to change those values.
Like for instance,
a lot of times you're not going to
change the width and height of the image.
I mean, you're going to stick with
the same width and height.
So all you need to do is you
need to take the output plugs.
So these are the output plugs to my node.
I don't want to change them.
I don't want to change the width,
the height, the bit of the DOD or the
active color channels.
So I simply connect them to the inputs.
And once I form that
connection between the inputs,
those input values,
and the output values,
Shake won't call me
for the output values.
Because it'll look, it'll say,
how do I get that value?
And it realizes that it can just
go up through a connection tree and
retrieve that value somewhere else.
So that means that you
might have thought,
oh, crap, I've got 16 plugs I might have
to evaluate and do all the
bookkeeping on in my node.
Well, actually you don't.
Most of the time,
you've only got a couple
plugs that you're actually
going to change the values of.
So you leave the others connected
so that that data just flows
straight through your node.
So you can see the data moving
down the processing tree,
flow straight through your node.
And the data going up the processing
tree flow straight through your node.
Two key ones you've got to cut, though.
The first one is the O buff.
You're going to be doing some kind
of processing on the buffer itself.
So you need to get that buffer of
pixels from the node above you,
implement your algorithm,
modify their values,
and take that pointer to the buffer
and put it into the output O buff.
So you're always going to do, oops.
So you're always going to do this.
You're always going to snip
the connection between the
incoming obuf and the out obuf.
The other one is this cache ID.
Shake has a very sophisticated caching
system so that it'll make up its mind
to cache some of your image data.
So that, let's say you've got
a node that does some,
like an FFT, some expensive computation
to produce an image.
Well, Shake can,
under certain circumstances,
cache your output image data.
And if it decides that all of your inputs
haven't changed at all since the last
time that it cached your image data,
when your node is requested
to process image data,
it'll just use the cache value.
The cache ID is actually,
it's simply a string that's used to
track the up-to-date state of your node.
Basically, the cache ID is the thing that
enables Shake to determine,
has anything changed since
I last cached your image data?
If it hasn't, Shake will reuse image
data that it's caching.
You won't get called to process.
and that's a big efficiency gain.
So, as you can imagine,
Shake's a very deep,
sophisticated application.
There are a lot of base classes that
we've defined that are dedicated to doing
different kinds of image processing.
Sort of the parent,
the mother of all image
processing base classes,
you'll find out is we call it NRIFX.
All it does is simply
define an output image plug.
And you can understand that
that's the most basic thing that
an image processing node can do,
is generate some image data.
Not even worry about
taking any image data in,
just simply generate an image.
And so the NRIFX base class,
which is the mother of all
image processing base classes,
provides that functionality.
And at this point, what I wanted to do,
since we've got just a
little over 12 minutes left,
is I can keep going and review
some of the additional image
processing base classes,
so that as a developer, you'll say, oh,
I'm developing this kind of node.
That's the base class I want to
start deriving my class from.
Or would you like me to open up to Q&A?
Because we've got 10, 12 minutes.
If you guys have questions,
I can spend the time
answering your questions.
So any vote, yay or nay?
Keep going.
Okay, we'll keep going,
unless you've got questions.
Stop me if you've got
questions at this point.
Okay.
Not yet.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
I can answer that question
if you'd like right now.
There are image processing base classes
in Shake that support concatenation.
The concept of concatenation is,
imagine if you've got five image
processing nodes that do transformations,
and all of those transformations
use a 4x4 transformation matrix.
Well, if you have all of those four nodes
basically stacked up together,
Shake has logic that takes
each of the transformation
matrices and concatenates them,
and basically takes what looks
like four image processing
operations and concatenates them
so they're actually executed as a
single image processing operation.
This is done with lookup
table-based operators.
Certain color-based image
processing nodes do support that.
Just arrived from the right class.
Yeah, so let me actually go through
the classes really quickly.
So a very popular one is NRI Monadic.
It takes a single input image and
produces a single output image.
It doesn't cache image data, though.
So if you've got a very expensive
image processing operation,
look at the NRI Cmonadic base class,
because that actually has an
internal node that actually
supports the caching of image data.
Like we talked about
right at the beginning,
nodes can have children nodes,
and if you derive from NRI Cmonadic,
that is a node that supports
caching of image data.
but it still takes a single input
image and a single output image.
[Transcript missing]
Some image processing nodes,
they know ahead of time that
they want four input images.
And that's never gonna change,
it's always gonna wanna
work on four input images.
You're gonna wanna derive from
the NRI an attic base class,
so you can preset how many
input images there's gonna be.
Shake will call you then with the
fill output buffer member function,
it'll basically prep all
the input image buffers.
They'll be there in an array for you so
you've got all your input image data.
And this is a really popular base class,
because a lot of people like getting
the full frame input image buffer.
In this class,
you can set a flag and say,
give me a full frame input image buffer.
Guess what, my algorithm,
it's doing FFTs,
I need the full frame image buffer.
You can set a flag,
and with NRI and attic,
it can work with one input,
just as well as it can
work with ten inputs.
So some people will just use NRI and
attic simply because they want,
they love the full frame
image buffer functionality.
If you're a generator node,
one of the things,
if you want to generate an image,
you'll want to derive from
the NRI input member function.
The nice thing about
it is you might think,
well,
I'll just start with NRI effects because
it defines a single output image.
But the things that you get for free
from NRI input is how to manage the
valid time range and that sort of thing.
So there's a lot of logic built in
there so that you can pass information
down the tree about how to handle
once you're outside of a valid
time range and that sort of thing.
And let me just wrap up at this point.
We've got a little bit,
we've got some more information.
Documentation,
sample code and other resources,
the WWDC website is
one good place to look.
Who to contact?
Patrick Collins is the track manager,
so you'll want to,
and technology manager,
you'll want to contact him.
And also myself, angus at apple.com.
And actually, you know,
an address that I want to give you
guys is shake-sdk at apple.com.
If you're interested in getting
a hold of the SDK package,
drop us a line there so that
we can start talking to you.